---
layout: post
title: "Why I decided to watch 'Parasite' in the theatre"
date: 2020-02-20
excerpt: "My love for movies"
tags: [movie post, not bollywood, foreign language]
comments: true
---

I remember vividly the day I watched Bicycle Thieves. Both of my parents are avid fans of cinema but they were only exposed to Bengali, Hindi and English movies. Watching Uttam Kumar movies with my mom almost every Sunday forms a major part of my growing up. Because of her, I got exposed to Satyajit Ray, Hrishikesh Mukherjee, Bimal Roy, Tapan Sinha, Tarun Majumder, Rituparno Ghosh and Aparna Sen, to name a few. Thanks to Baba, I remember being forced to watch movies like Mackenna's gold and Lawrence of Arabia, works by Bruce Lee (you should realize by now my dad's favorite genre!) but I never realized that there is a world of amazing movies in other languages. Then, in my first year of my undergrad, I attended my very first film festival. And there, I watched Bicycle Thieves. I remember crying at the end of the movie, at how helpless Antonio was. It had a really intense effect on me for days as I realized for the first time in my life I watched the good guys "lose" in a movie. Don't get me wrong: I have watched a lot of bengali movies about "ordinary" people, people whose lives are perpetual. It occurred to me for the first time that I have never seen cinema that represents real people. I finally realized why I like the story-tellers I like so much! Unfortunately because of the language barrier (and obviously ignorance), I have been exposed to only a few other foreign language movies, in the years following that. Only recently because of the advent of the online streaming platforms, such foreign movies have become so accessible (kudos to their recommender systems). Till a year back, I would not have imagined spending money to watch a film in a language I do not understand. But thanks to Netflix, I watched such amazing movies and shows like Okja, Roma, Super Deluxe, Oh Baby, Narcos, Elite, Dark among others. Roma portrayed the class divide so beautifully; how Cleo goes about her day, working tirelessly from dawn to nightfall, how all the kids loved her and she was only allowed to sit on the floor when the doctor was around. Clearly he was the "most learned" in the family and still had such regressive views and was the one leaving his family for another woman. I was immensely moved during the scene when Cleo cries on the beach or when Fermin calls her a "servant" and threatens to hurt her. Movies like Okja and Super Deluxe beautifully portrayed the life of ordinary people doing extra-ordinary things, sometimes with a little help from the super-natural. When I saw the trailer of Parasite, I thought it would be a very interestin movie (specially since it is made my Bong Joon-ho) but I would have never guessed in a million years what is actually turned out to be. Bong showed the class divide so well (when the son, Da-song, notices that all of them smell similar or how the whole Park family realizes that Mr. Kim smelled different/bad). That scene especially affected me because I have noticed smells on other people back in India; I know how a lot of people here notice the "curry" smell on south Asians; and how hard I try not to smell like it when I make curry at home. The scene at the very beginning about the Kim family being hopeful even though they have nothing or the one at the very end, when Ki-woo deciphers his dad's morse code and dreams about being rich one day and freeing him, when his ailing Mom is coughing on the small bed... I love movies and they really move me (I remember going to see Lion and crying unstoppably the first 1/2 hour; there was a time P suggested for us to go out so that people around me are not disturbed by my bawling) but this movie had a really unnerving effect, just like Okja did. Bong has a really weird and interesting way to show people exactly how corrupt and lop-sided the system is and how there exists this class divide. I will end this with a quote from the movie  
So, to everyone who liked that trailer but are a bit skepticle about the movie, go check it out, you never know it might open a world of amazingness that you never knew! :happy:


